DOCS-9455 search update (#117)
mulesoft/docs-exchange: modules/ROOT/pages/to-find-info.adoc

= Search for Assets
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images/

Anypoint Exchange search looks for terms in:

* Each asset's name

> * Tags

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Tags and Categories
```

Author: I think it's better to keep tags and categories as two items in this list. The old search uses different syntax for searching for them, and the old search section has different sections in this file explaining how to search for tags and how to search for categories. The new search has separate drop-down menus for them. However, if there's a strong reason to join them on one line that I'm not seeing, please tell me.

Reviewer: Oh, my bad, I didn't see categories was in another item and thought we had not included them. I agree with you that keeping them separated is better 👍

Author: Understood. Thank you!

* The content of the asset portal pages
* xref:to-find-info.adoc#searching-api-specifications[Properties defined in RAML and OAS API specifications]

In Exchange you can enter search text to search for assets, click *All Types* to set a filter for specific asset types, or combine search text with the filters listed in the type menu.

<<index.adoc#content-types,Content Types>> lists the different types of asset.

You can also search by clicking category or tag elements. This creates a filtered search you can use to find similar assets.

> The original Exchange search experience is avilable in Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition, MuleSoft Government Cloud, the US cloud, and the EU cloud. The new Exchange search experience is available in the US cloud and the EU cloud.

Reviewer 2: Typo for available on line 22. Can we perhaps add a screenshot that introduces the "new search"? Remember, this is something the customers will still have to opt-into, so adding a screenshot will help in creating that clarity..

Author: Fixed that typo! Also added a screenshot of the new search.

In the original Exchange search experience, searches apply only to the Exchange organization you are viewing. If you search in a private Exchange organization, the search only lists that organization's assets and not MuleSoft's public assets.

In the new Exchange search experience, you can select which of the organizations visible to you should be included in each search.

> To search by tags and categories in the new Exchange search experience, use the drop-down menus for tags and categories on the search page.

Reviewer 2: You can also add a section about sorting feature on the right side of the search panel. Something like - results are sorted by "Relevance" by default. The matching results are ranked for relevance based on where a match is found in the asset metadata such as name, title, pages and endpoints.

Author: Good point! Added a description of the sorting menu based on your text here.

* The content of the asset portal pages
* xref:to-find-info.adoc#searching-api-specifications[Properties defined in RAML and OAS API specifications]

In Exchange you can enter search text to search for assets, click *All Types* to set a filter for specific asset types, or combine search text with the filters listed in the type menu.

<<index.adoc#content-types,Content Types>> lists the different types of asset.

You can also search by clicking category or tag elements. This creates a filtered search you can use to find similar assets.

The original Exchange search experience is available in Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition, MuleSoft Government Cloud, the US cloud, and the EU cloud. The new Exchange search experience is available in the US cloud and the EU cloud.

> New Exchange search experience:

Reviewer: I'm thinking we need a new page to put the information specific to the new search experience. Other sections have information about old search and could be confusing. For example "Search Separators" "Phrase Search Separators" apply to old search only, and we have a "== Search by Tags, Categories, and Custom Fields in the Original Exchange Search Experience" section where we make a distinction for tags, categories and custom fields.

I would suggest to keep this page with information about old search and add a new one for new search where we can more clearly explain the differences.

Author: If I understand correctly, we do plan to remove the old search experience eventually and have one search system everywhere. In that case, I think it's better to describe both systems on one page, so that when we go to one system, we don't have to delete a page from the docs.

We try to avoid deleting docs pages and making new redirects, since it hurts our search engine rankings and surprises any users who have bookmarks to the old page.

I agree that we should make the difference between old and new search clearer and more organized.

As I reviewed your comment, I found that the introduction text still had some info about types in the old search, and moved that to a section about the old search.

Currently this is the outline:

[general info, including info about where old and new search are available, and basic tasks with new search]
* Save a Search [both old and new]
* Searching API Specifications [both old and new]
* Search for Phrases in the Original Exchange Search Experience [old]
  * Search Separators [old]
  * Phrase Search Separators [old]
* Search by Tags, Categories, and Custom Fields in the Original Exchange Search Experience [old]
  * Search by Tags [old]
  * Search by Categories [old]
  * Search by Custom Fields [old]
* See Also [both old and new]

In the navigation menu on the right side, only the top level headers appear:

* Save a Search [both old and new]
* Searching API Specifications [both old and new]
* Search for Phrases in the Original Exchange Search Experience [old]
* Search by Tags, Categories, and Custom Fields in the Original Exchange Search Experience [old]
* See Also [both old and new]

To make this clearer, I have added text in every section either in the title or the first sentence explaining whether that section is for the old search, the new search, or both. I have also re-organized the headings:

[general info, including info about where old and new search are available]
* Tags, Categories, and Ranking in the New Exchange Search Experience [new]
* Searching in Organizations [both old and new]
* Save a Search [both old and new]
* Searching API Specifications [both old and new]
* Search for Phrases in the Original Exchange Search Experience [old]
* Search by Types, Tags, Categories, and Custom Fields in the Original Exchange Search Experience [old]
* See Also [both old and new]

Please review the new draft and tell me what you think.

Reviewer: Got it, I was not considering that we would need to delete the new page after making it the default experience 👍 .
The changes look good, thanks!

image::search.png[New Exchange search experience]

In the original Exchange search experience, searches apply only to the Exchange organization you are viewing. If you search in a private Exchange organization, the search only lists that organization's assets and not MuleSoft's public assets.

> In the new Exchange search experience, you can select which of the organizations visible to you should be included in each search.

Reviewer: Can we add a sentence here explaining that by default (i.e. if the user does not select any specific organization in the dropdown filter) the search will be executed against the whole customer organization (master organization plus it's business groups) AND against Mulesoft's public assets?

Author: That's a great idea! Added.

> To search by tags and categories in the new Exchange search experience, use the drop-down menus for tags and categories on the search page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To filter by tags and categories in the new Exchange search experience, use the drop-down menus for tags and categories on the search page.
```
maybe? technically it's filtering, not searching for the content

Author: Seems like a good change. Updated.

> To select the ranking of search results in the new Exchange search experience, use the *Sort by* drop-down menu to choose *Relevance* (default), *Name*, *Last modified*, or *Rating*. *Relevance* sorts the matching results by where a match is found in the asset metadata such as name, title, pages, and endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To select the ranking of search results in the new Exchange search experience, use the *Sort by* drop-down menu to choose *Relevance* (default), *Name*, *Last modified*, or *Rating*. *Relevance* sorts the matching results by where a match is found in the asset metadata such as name, title, pages, and API Spec metadata.
```
it's not just the endpoints, but I'm not sure if it's worth clarifying here

Author: Good point! I think it is better to say that it's all API spec metadata, not just endpoints. Fixed.

* The content of the asset portal pages
* xref:to-find-info.adoc#searching-api-specifications[Properties defined in RAML and OAS API specifications]

> On an asset portal, click a tag or category element to create a filtered search showing similar assets.

Reviewer 3: On or in?

Author: Neither is incorrect, but I think "in" is better. Fixed.

> The original Exchange search experience is available in Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition, MuleSoft Government Cloud, the US cloud, and the EU cloud. The new Exchange search experience is available in the US cloud and the EU cloud.

Reviewer 3: Does your audience know what the "original" and "new" Exchange search "experiences" are?
Why are there orig. and new versions? What was wrong with orig. or is better about new?
Something about these two versions probably needs adding to the intro of the container topic.

Author: Added.

New Exchange search experience:

image::search.png[New Exchange search experience]

== Tags, Categories, and Ranking in the New Exchange Search Experience

> To filter search results by tags and categories in the new Exchange search experience, use the drop-down menus for tags and categories on the search page.

Reviewer 3: Do we have to repeat "tags and categories"?

Author: Removed.

To select the ranking of search results in the new Exchange search experience, use the *Sort by* drop-down menu to choose *Relevance* (default), *Name*, *Last modified*, or *Rating*. *Relevance* sorts the matching results by where a match is found in the asset metadata, such as name, title, pages, and API specification metadata. API specification metadata includes endpoints and types.

== Searching in Organizations

> In the original Exchange search experience, searches apply only to the Exchange organization you are viewing. If you search in a private Exchange organization, the search only lists that organization's assets and not MuleSoft's public assets.

Reviewer 3: Maybe separate topics for orig. and new searches? Just a feeling I get about switching back and forth between these....

Reviewer 3: You got the first "only" right!
```suggestion
In the original Exchange search experience, searches apply only to the Exchange organization you are viewing. If you search in a private Exchange organization, the search lists only that organization's assets and not MuleSoft public assets.
```
Coupla' questions that might be clarified:
Is the private organization intended to be a different org from the one you are viewing in the first sentence, or can they be the same (you are viewing a private org)?
I guess I am not sure what distinction we are making here: between an org you belong to vs. one you do not?
Or two separate points: current-view org and private org.
Are we really saying that you can search only the org you are currently viewing, and the results are restricted to that org and not all public assets?

Author: Updated and clarified.

> In the new Exchange search experience, you can select which of the organizations visible to you should be included in each search. By default, no organization is selected in the drop-down menu, and Exchange searches MuleSoft's public assets and the assets of the master organization and its business groups.

Reviewer 3: So is the distinction really of one org at a time (orig) vs. selected orgs or MS+master+all orgs?

A graphic might be great here, comparing orig search and new search?

Author: Updated.

== Save a Search

> The original Exchange search experience and the new Exchange search experience save searches in the same way.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the same method to save searches in either the original Exchange search experience or the new Exchange search experience:
```

Author: Updated.

. Enter a search term and click *Save This Search*.

> . Exchange prompts you to give the search a name, and to select if the search is for your organization or personal.

Reviewer 3: Reword to make this a step:
```suggestion
. When prompted, give the search a name and select whether the search is an organization search or personal search.
```

Author: Updated.

+
Administrators can save searches visible to anyone in their current business group. Personal searches are visible only to the person who creates them.

> . View the left navigation bar to see the saved searches.

Reviewer 3: Is there another save step after providing the name and type of search?

Reviewer 3: Should this step be a confirmation that your search was added, rather than just viewing?

Author: Updated.

+

> Exchange lists search terms specific to your business group. Below those terms are saved searches you created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Exchange lists search terms specific to your business group. Below those terms are saved searches you created:
```

Reviewer 3: BREAK HERE to commit.

Author: Updated.

+
image::ex2-saved-searches-groups.png[Saved Search Groups]

== Searching API Specifications

The original Exchange search experience and the new Exchange search experience process API specifications in the same way.

> Exchange searches these API specification properties:

Reviewer 3: c/b "Both searches use the same method to search for these API specification properties:

Reviewer 3: Are the following labels? The capitalization among them is inconsistent.
Are they syntax; should they be formatted as such?

Author: Updated. Fixed capitalization. These are more-human-friendly descriptions of the syntax, for example "Base URI" for "baseUri," so it is correct for them not to be formatted as labels or syntax.

* API Title
* Base URI
* Endpoints
** Path
** Display name
** Description
* Methods
** Method type (GET, POST, PUT)
** Description
* Query Parameters
** Name
** Description
* URI Parameters
** Name
* Types
** Name
** Properties
* Traits
* Properties
* Security Schemas

> These property names are based on RAML specifications. Equivalent properties are indexed for OAS specifications. For example, RAML has base URI and OAS has host and path.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These property names are based on RAML specifications. Equivalent properties are indexed for OAS specifications. For example, RAML uses `base URI` but OAS uses `host` and `path`.
```

Author: Updated.

> API specification search example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example shows an API specification:
```

Author: Fixed.

[source,text,linenums]
----
#%RAML 1.0
---
title: Leagues API
version: v1
baseUri: https://leagues.com/api/

types:
 Team:
   properties:
     name: string
     city: string

/leagues/{leagueId}:
 displayName: League resource
 description: Contains all the information about a league
 uriParameters:
   leagueId:
     displayName: League ID
     description: The ID of the league to retrieve information from
 /teams:
   get:
     displayName: Teams directory
     description: Get list of all teams in the league
     queryParameters:
       offset:
         displayName: Offset
         description: Offset for the result set
     responses:
       200:
         body:
           application/json:
               type: Team[]
   post:
     displayName: Create team
     description: Creates a new team in the league
     responses:
       201:
         description: New team has been created
----

> This API will be found by these searches:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This API is found by these searches:
```

Author: Fixed.

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Search term |Matches
|league API |API title
|leagues.com |API baseUri
|`/leagues` |Endpoint path
|League resource |Endpoint display name
|Information about a league |Endpoint description
|POST |Endpoint method
|create team |Endpoint method description
|offset |Query parameter name, Query parameter description
|leagueid |URI parameter name
|team |Type name
|city |Type property name
|leagues leagueId teams |Endpoint path
|`/leagues/LEAGUE_ID/teams` |Endpoint path
|===

> The last two searches are the same, because special characters are removed before searching.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that the last two searches are the same, because special characters are removed before searching.
```
Kind of an aside, yes?

Author: Fixed.

> == Search for Phrases in the Original Exchange Search Experience

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
== Search for Phrases by Using the Original Exchange Search Experience
```

Author: Fixed.

> In the original Exchange search experience, to search for case insensitive text

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using the original Exchange search experience, to search for case-insensitive text
```

Author: Fixed.

-connect -sales
----

> This table shows how each search term is interpreted depending on the values in the asset name,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This table shows how each search term is interpreted based on the values in the asset name,
```

Author: Fixed.

"Sales connect":Api
----

> This table shows how each search term is interpreted depending on the values in the asset name,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This table shows how each search term is interpreted based on the values in the asset name,
```

Author: Fixed.

|Optimized API |optimized-api |sales:/connect |Yes
|===

> == Search by Types, Tags, Categories, and Custom Fields in the Original Exchange Search Experience

Reviewer 3: Isn't this rather far removed from its equivalent for the new search, Line 24 above?

Author: Yes, after discussion with PM and devs we agreed to put sections exclusive to the old search at the bottom.

> In the original Exchange search experience, you can enter search text to search for assets, click *All Types* to set a filter for specific asset types, or combine search text with the filters listed in the type menu.

Reviewer 3: Would it be just as effective to use something like this?
```suggestion
In the original Exchange search experience, you can either search the names of assets or create filters to search for specific asset types, or you can combine search text with existing filters listed in the type menu.
```

Author: This would not be accurate. In the original search, search text may include parameters such as tags that are not asset names. Clicking *All Types* is the step to open the menu and select an existing filter but does not create a filter.

<<index.adoc#content-types,Content Types>> lists the different types of asset.

The original Exchange search experience uses query language to search assets by tags, categories, and custom fields.

=== Search by Tags

> Search by tags with this structure: `tag:"some value"` or `tag:value`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Search by tags using either `tag:"some value"` or `tag:value`.
```

Author: Fixed.

If the value has no spaces, then double quotes are optional.

> Tag search is case insensitive.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Tag search is case-insensitive.
```

Author: Fixed.

=== Search by Categories

> Search by categories with this structure: `category:"some key" = "some value"`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Search by categories using either `category:"some key" = "some value"`.
```

Author: Fixed.

If the category has no spaces in the key or value, then double quotes are optional.

The key can include the asterisk (`*`) regular expression to search for characters within a category name.

> The key is case sensitive.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The key is case-sensitive.
```

Author: Fixed.

A search value matches an asset value if either of these is true:

> * The search value is entirely lower case.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The search value is entirely lowercase.
```

Author: Fixed.

> * The search value and the asset value have matching case.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The letter case of the search value and the asset value match.
```

Author: Fixed.

|category:this.* = some-* |this.is.my.key:some-value |No
|===

You can search for a combination of different categories. You cannot search for multiple values of the same category.

Multiple search terms use an implicit `AND`. `OR` is not supported.

These search terms return all assets marked as both system APIs and Salesforce products:

`category:"API Type" = "System API" category:"Product" = "Salesforce"`

=== Search by Custom Fields

> Search by fields with this structure: `field:"some key" = "some value"`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Search by fields using `field:"some key" = "some value"`.
```

Author: Fixed.

If the custom field has no spaces in the key or value, then double quotes are optional.

The key can include the asterisk (`*`) regular expression to search for characters within a field name.

> The key is case sensitive.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The key is case-sensitive.
```

Author: Fixed.

A search value matches an asset value if either of these is true:

> * The search value is entirely lower case.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The search value is entirely lowercase.
```

Author: Fixed.

> * The search value and the asset value have matching case.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The letter case of the search value and the asset match.
```

Author: Fixed.
